Maxserver buildout
==================

This package contains a buildout system to deploy all the needed
bits to run a max system. Both devel and production environments
can be set with config files included.

System dependencies
-------------------

* Install OS library dependencies (for Ubuntu systems)::

    apt-get install zlib1g-dev build-essential libldap2-dev libsasl2-dev libncurses5-dev xsltproc zip
    libreadline6-dev libncurses5-dev libncursesw5-dev libsqlite3-dev libssl-dev
    tk-dev libgdbm-dev libc6-dev libbz2-dev libxslt1-dev libpcre3-dev libjpeg62-dev libzlcore-dev libfreetype6-dev erlang

* Install OS library dependencies (for OSX systems)::

    brew install pcre

* Check erlang version by executing ``erl -version``. You need erlang at least 5.10.2 R16B01. If you can't get it from your distribution, get the latest erlang and build it from sources following instructions from http://www.erlang.org/doc/installation_guide/INSTALL.html#Required-Utilities_Unpackingn

Deployment options
------------------

There are different .cfg files available to different deploy scenarios, and some need specific setup instructions. Please follow the links on the options to read the specfific docs to use each config file.

First of all, there's some files that are common to all configurations:

    * base.cfg - This file includes all the common parts that other files use. This is not meant to be used alone, it's a dependency of all others.
    * customizeme.cfg - Where you customize settings for your instance, (ports, urls, parts ...)
    * mongoauth.cfg - Where you specify current mongodb settings. This file is autogenerated by the bootstrap process and si it's not included in this repository.


The follwing files are used for development and debugging

    * devel.cfg - Development version, full stack, with sources from git
    * devel-with-osiris.cfg - Development version, full stack, with sources from git, using local oauth
    * debug.cfg - To connect to a (monolytic) remote max environment
    locally.

These other files are used to deploy a single component of the stack, all
meant to be used in a production environment:

    * max-only.cfg - Deploys a max instance
    * bigmax-only.cfg - Deploys a bigmax instance
    * mongodb-only.cfg - Deploys a mongodb cluster
    * nginx-only.cfg - Deploy a nginx server for max
    * osiris-only.cfg - Deploy a osiris oauth server for max
    * talk-only.cf - Deploy RabbitMQ and queue processing tools


And finally there's a jenkins.cfg configuration, that is similar to devel.cfg, only to be used inside jenkins CI.

* Bootstrap and execute buildout::

    $ python bootstrap.py -c <configfile.cfg>
    $ ./bin/buildout -c <configfile.cfg>


* Start supervisor (for devel, debug, monoserver & prepro)::

    $ ./bin/supervisord

* Start circusd (the rest of cfg)

    $ ./bin/circusd config/circus.ini --daemon

* By default the database will be initialized with permissions for a user named "restricted". If you want other users to be set as initial administators, add them on file ``config/.authorized_users`` . I both cases, then create initial persistent security setting by executing ::

    $ ./bin/initialize_max_db config/max.ini
    Created default security info in MAXDB.\n"
    Remember to restart max process!

* Create the file config/cloudapis.ini, and fill in the twitter settings for your twitter user, and the push settings. You can use the template in config/templates/cloudapis.ini.template to make a copy from. This is a manual opeation on purpose, to make sure this file won't be regenerated.
Once filled, execute the following command::

    $ ./bin/max.cloudapis -c config/common.ini -a config/cloudapis.ini

* Initialize max.ui development widget base settings, it will ask for your credentials
  and store them in .max_settings::

    $ ./bin/maxui.setup

* Add the restructed user and any users you want to max. You'll be asked a username and password the first time. Use "restricted" or any of the users in the latter ``.authorized_users``::

    $ ./bin/max.devel add user restricted
    Done.

* Initialize the restricted user for use of daemon scripts (Tweety and
  Push/Tweety consumers) server settings by running::

    $ ./bin/max.setrestricted -c config/max.ini

* Initialize the RabbitMQ server settings by running::

    $ ./bin/max.rabbit -c config/max.ini

* Restart max process to apply all the changes::

    $ ./bin/supervisorctl restart max

this command takes a standard max config .ini as configuration settings. This is
intended to run once in a production server or as many times as needed on
development. It creates the default artifacts in RabbitMQ server and it will
also syncronize the existing conversations in the max server with the
correspondant exchanges in the RabbitMQ server.

Enabling twitter service
------------------------

* First you have to create a config/instances.ini file, you can use config/templates/instances.ini.template to copy from. The section name [max_xxxxxx], where xxxxx indicates the value of name in the [max] section of the buildout. can be repeated N times, one for each max that Tweety will be listening tweets for. If in development,  you can leave max_default as the only one.

Also there is a script namped bin/max.newinstance that will guide you in the process of creating each instance


Considerations using the development version widget
---------------------------------------------------

- You must have at least an user created to view and use the widget
- ``maxui.setup`` script has configured ``src/max.ui.js/presets/base.json`` with buildout-generated parameters
- After the previous setup steps, the development widget is visible at ``http://localhost:8080/maxui-dev/devel.html``
- Default preset ``timeline`` works out-of-the-box
- You can change presets appending ``?preset=presetname``
- If you want to use the ``context`` preset, you have to create a context and subscribe user(s) to it::

        $ ./bin/max.devel add context http://contexturi ContextName
        $ ./bin/max.devel add subscription user.name http://contexturi

* If you run buildout again, you have to run ``maxui.setup``script again. Any changes will be lost.

Ports used by processes
-----------------------

* Command to see which ports a process is listening to::

    $ sudo netstat --numeric --numeric-hosts --all --program | grep PID


Troubleshooting
---------------

* 401 when creating the initial user:
    - Possibly you don't have permission to request a token from the designated oauth server
